# dataScienceProject1
First project in Data Science Nanodegree Udacity Program

Dataset "Young people survey" used in this project is downloaded from Kaggle.com (https://www.kaggle.com/miroslavsabo/young-people-survey)

The repository consists of:
- data files
- jupyter notbook file (youngPeopleSurvey_myAnalysis.ipynb)
- figures generated by the notebook, used on medium platform

Data is saved in dataSet folder which contains three files:
- columns.csv
- description.txt
- responses.csv

'columns.csv' stores explanation for the shortened column name used in responses.csv file,
'description.txt' stores general descroption of the dataset with the list of all questions and used scale for answers,
'responses.csv' is the main data file with 150 columns and 1050 rows.

In order to understand the data, there were following libraries used: 
- python numpy
- python pandas
- matplotlib and seaborn for visualization

Jupyter notebook file consists small analysis of the "Young people survey". The survey was taken in 2013 in Slovakia and has dataset with over 1000 respondents to 150 questions about their lifestyle, hobbies, fears, preferences, etc.

There three main topics taken into consideration.
1) analysis of movie preferences
2) correlation between demographic data and spending habits
3) correlation between phobias and health habits

Conclusions:
AD1:
movie preferences --> movies, in general, are enjoyed by almost everyone. When it comes to movie types, comedies are number one, whereas horrors and western take the last place.
The main differences between male and female choices are in romantic movies (those are prefered by women) and war and action movies (men choice)

AD2:
demographic data vs spending habits --> spending on looks correlates with enjoying going to large shopping centres, spending on gadgets correlates to taking care of branded items. Women would rather enjoy shopping centres and would spend money on their appearance, whereas men would rather spend money on the gadgets

AD3:
phobias vs health habits --> Generally, as soon as someone is afraid of one thing, it's likely that other fears exist. If someone drinks more than often, it's more likely that he/she smokes as well. There are no obvious correlations between health habits and fears. The strongest correlation is between Rats and Snakes, what additionally shows diagram below.

More to find on the blog: 

